This destination certainly needs no introduction. This beach in the pilgrim city of Puri is the most popular beach in Odisha and the largest in the country. The splendid beach stretches up to seven km and is a round-the-year destination for both domestic and international travellers. Visitors can enjoy both the sunrise and the sunset, sunbathe, sit back on the beach and watch local fishermen pulling their catch or mending their nets play with the waves, along with listening to the melodious rendition of the striking waves. Compared to other beaches in the country, the Puri Beach is considered to be safer as it does not face high tide and undercurrent very often. High tides occur only during full moon, so taking a bath in the sea is an enjoyable experience. The area near the beach is dotted with hotels and lodgings for travellers of all categories. For food lovers, there are several shacks along the beach selling fried and grilled seafood like prawns, crabs and pomfrets, freshly caught from the sea, along with vegetable pakodas. There are also many shops selling Odisha handlooms and seashell handicrafts. Like Chandrabhaga, Puri also has a lighthouse which remains open from 4 pm to 6 pm. One can get a spectacular view of the sea and the beach from the top of the lighthouse.Anyone who has spent his childhood in the city of Kolkata would remember that Puri was one of the most preferred choices of weekend getaways. In fact, for some, the Puri beach was the first ever sea beach they visited as children. Located on the shore of the Bay of Bengal, the Puri beach is home to some of the most stunning views of the ocean and at the same time is a part of the city which is also famous for its religious significance. Apart from being a popular weekend getaway for the population living in the neighbouring cities of Odisha and West Bengal, the other thing that attracts travellers from all parts is the annual Puri Beach Festival, which is co-sponsored and organised by the Indian Ministry of Tourism, the Odisha state government, the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts, and the Eastern Zonal Cultural Center in Kolkata.The Puri railway station is located at a distance of just two kilometres from the Puri beach, thus giving access to tourists to travel to the places near Puri beach, including the town of Bhubaneswar, which is just 60 km from the city of Puri. What sets the Puri beach apart from the rest of the beaches in any other part of the country is its popularity among both tourists and devotees.While tourists visit the Puri beach for its undeniable charm, its sun, sand and stunning views of the Bay of Bengal, the devotees flock to this place because they believe the waters here to be holy and that they wash away the sins of the person who takes a dip. Besides, the Puri beach for years, has continued to be the sacred venue for an endless number of pilgrims who visit the place to pay homage to Lord Jagannath. One of the most unique attractions of the Puri beach that attract tourists not only from the neighbouring towns and other parts of the country but from other parts of the world as well, are the renowned sand sculptures that are created on this beach by using its very sand by internationally famed sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik. The subjects of his artworks are generally inspired by sculptures covering the temple walls, characters and episodes from the mythology and also the contemporary events.